AI agents are quickly becoming the new
software layer, and open-source projects
are starting to replace tools people use
to pay for every month. In this video,
I'm showing you 10 open-source AI agent
projects that can replace paid coding
tools, browser agents, chatbot
platforms, orchestration systems, and
more. One of these is a serious
alternative to paid coding agents.
Another can control web pages like an
operator, and one is built for running
full agent workflows in a sandbox. So,
if you're a developer, indie hacker,
startup builder, or just trying to keep
up with the AI agent wave, this list is
going to be extremely useful. Let's
start with one of the strongest projects
in this list, an open-source AI agent
that shows exactly why this category is
getting so much attention.
>> Welcome back to Manu AGI tutorials. Here
we explore the exciting world of AI,
latest AI tools for you. So don't forget
to hit that subscribe button and the
notification bell so you don't miss out
on the latest AI insights. So let's
start today's video. Project number one,
Goose. If you've been paying attention
to the rise of coding agents, this
project is one of the clearest examples
of why open- source AI agents are
becoming such a big deal. Goose is
described on GitHub as a local
extensible open-source AI agent that
automates engineering tasks. It goes
beyond code suggestions and is built to
write and execute code, debug failures,
orchestrate workflows, and even interact
with external APIs autonomously. Why
does that matter? Because a lot of
developers are getting used to paying
for AI coding tools that still feel
limited, closed, or hard to customize.
Goose takes a very different direction.
It's on machine, open-source, works with
any LLM, supports multimodel setups, and
integrates with MCP servers. So if you
want an AI agent that can actually help
with real engineering work instead of
just giving autocomplete style
suggestions, Goose is one of the
strongest projects to watch right now.
Now the next one is especially
interesting because instead of helping
with coding tasks in a terminal, it
moves into a completely different area,
controlling web interfaces like an
operator. Project number two, page
agent. This project is easy to
understand and that's one of the reasons
it's so powerful. Page agent is
described on GitHub as a JavaScript
inpage GUI agent that can control web
interfaces using natural language. That
matters because one of the biggest AI
software trends right now is operator
style tools, systems that can actually
use websites and interfaces the way a
human would. A lot of those experiences
are still locked inside premium
products, paid automation platforms, or
closed AI tools. Page Agent gives you an
open-source version of that idea. So if
you care about browser automation, AI
operators, workflow automation, or
natural language control over web
interfaces, this project is extremely
relevant and that makes it a very strong
fit for this list because it shows how
open-source AI agents are moving into
categories where people expect to pay
for premium automation products. And now
the next one takes things even further
because it's not just one agent doing
one task. It's about coordinating
multiple coding agents together. Project
number three, agent orchestrator. If the
future of software involves multiple AI
agents working together, this project
shows what that can actually look like
in practice. According to its GitHub
page, Agent Orchestrator is an agentic
orchestrator for parallel coding agents.
It plans tasks, spawns agents, and can
autonomously handle things like CI
fixes, merge conflicts, and code
reviews. That's a very serious workflow
because once you move beyond a single
assistant and start thinking about
multiple agents collaborating on
engineering tasks, you move into the
kind of space where companies usually
start paying for advanced automation
platforms. Agent Orchestrator gives
developers an open-source path into that
world. So, if you're interested in
multi-agent coding systems, engineering
automation, or building workflows that
go beyond a single AI assistant, this
project is one of the most interesting
in the list. And in the context of
today's theme, this is exactly the kind
of open-source AI agent project that
makes paid orchestration tools look a
lot less untouchable. And the next
project moves from coding agents into a
different but equally important
category, knowledge and retrieval
workflows powered by AI. Project number
four, Hermes Agent. If you think most AI
agents still feel forgetful, temporary,
or too shallow to be truly useful over
time, this project is especially
interesting. Hermes Agent is presented
as a fully open-source AI agent that
grows with you. According to its GitHub
repo and docs, it has a built-in
learning loop, creates skills from
experience, improves them during use,
persists knowledge, and builds memory
across sessions. It also supports tool
systems, MCP integration, and can run on
anything from a lowcost VPS to larger
infrastructure. Why does that matter?
Because a lot of paid AI assistants
still feel like they reset every time
you come back. They may be useful in the
moment, but they often don't build
long-term capability in a way that feels
truly personal or workflow aware.
Hermise Agent pushes in the opposite
direction. So, if you want a persistent
AI teammate that can remember, learn,
improve, and become more useful over
time, this is one of the strongest
open-source projects in that category.
And in the context of this video, it's a
very good example of how open-source AI
agents are starting to challenge premium
assistant software directly. And in the
context of this video, it's a very good
example of how open-source AI agents are
starting to challenge premium assistant
software directly. Project number five,
Claude Code plugins. This one is
important because it shows how agent
ecosystems are becoming modular.
Anthropic describes this repository as a
curated directory of highquality plugins
for cloud code. Their documentation also
makes it clear that plugins can extend
Claude code through custom commands,
agents, and workflows. And that the
official marketplace is available
directly inside Claude Code. Why does
that matter? Because a big part of the
paid software story is not just the
model itself. It's the ecosystem around
it. The workflows, integrations,
commands, and specialized extensions are
often what make premium tools feel
powerful. This plug-in directory shows
how that ecosystem is becoming more open
and more flexible. So, if you use cloud
code or you care about plug-in based AI
development environments, this
repository is worth watching closely.
And for today's theme, it matters
because it points toward a future where
agentic coding environments are not just
premium products. They're increasingly
extensible through open repositories and
communitydriven workflow. And the next
project makes this even more practical
because now we move from plug-in
ecosystems into a programmable agent
runtime you can build on directly.
Project number six, then GitHub Copilot
SDK. This project is especially
interesting if you've ever looked at AI
coding agents and thought, "What if I
could actually build on top of that
runtime instead of just using the
product as is?" According to the
repository and GitHub's change log, the
Copilot SDK provides programmatic access
to the same engine behind Copilot CLI, a
production tested agent runtime that can
handle planning, tool invocation, file
edits, and more. It's currently in
technical preview. That's a big deal
because once agent runtimes become
programmable, developers are no longer
limited to one fixed AI product
experience. They can start embedding
agent behavior into their own tools,
workflows, and applications. So, if
you're building developer products,
internal tooling, or custom AI
workflows, this project is one of the
clearest signs that agent software is
turning into infrastructure. And the
next project shifts from coding
environments into something more
collaborative. An open-source AI agent
system designed for teams, chat
platforms, and real communication
workflows. Project number seven,
Symphony. This project is especially
interesting if you think AI agents
should be doing real project work, not
just sitting inside a chat window
waiting for instructions. According to
its GitHub page, Symphfony turns project
work into isolated, autonomous
implementation runs, allowing teams to
manage work instead of constantly
supervising coding agents. That's a big
shift because one of the biggest
limitations of many paid AI tools right
now is that they still depend too much
on constant human supervision. They can
help, but they don't always feel like
real execution systems. Symphony pushes
toward a different model. So, if you
care about autonomous implementation,
agent-driven project execution, or
moving from assistant style AI into real
agentic workflows, this project is worth
paying attention to. Now, the next one
makes this even more collaborative
because instead of one autonomous run,
it's built around multiple agents
working together in a visible team
environment. Project number eight, High
Claw. This is one of the most
interesting multi- aent projects in the
list because it is designed around a
very clear idea, an AI team in a chat
room. According to its repository,
Highclaw is an open-source collaborative
multi-agent OS for transparent human in
the loop task coordination via matrix
rooms. It uses a manager workers
architecture where a manager agent
coordinates worker agents while all
conversations remain visible and the
human can intervene at any time. Why
does that matter? Because a lot of paid
agent platforms try to sell the idea of
AI teams, but they often feel closed,
expensive, or difficult to inspect
deeply. Highclaw gives you an
open-source version of that idea with
privacy visibility, self-hosting, and
direct human oversight built into the
workflow. So, if you're interested in
multi-agent teamwork, collaborative AI
systems, or enterprise style
coordination workflows, this is a very
important project. And for today's
theme, it's one of the strongest
examples of open-source AI agents moving
into categories where companies would
normally expect to pay for premium
coordination software. And now the next
project takes us into a different kind
of workflow, one where agents can
interact with a knowledge product that a
lot of people are already using heavily.
Project number nine, Notebook LM-PI.
This project stands out because it
connects directly to a tool that many
people already know. Notebook LM.
According to its GitHub page, Notebook
LM--pie is an unofficial Python API and
agentic skill for Google Notebook LM,
giving programmatic access to Notebook
LM's features through Python, CLI, and
AI agents like Clawed Code, Codeex, and
Open Claw, including capabilities the
web UI doesn't expose. That's a strong
idea because many knowledge tools feel
useful, but still limited when they stay
inside a fixed web interface. Once they
become programmable and agent
accessible, they move into a very
different category. So if you care about
research workflows, knowledge
automation, AI note systems, or
agent-driven interaction with knowledge
tools, this project becomes very
practical very quickly. And the final
project is a great way to close this
list because it focuses on one of the
most important pieces of the whole agent
ecosystem where agents actually run.
Project number 10, Open Sandbox. This
project is important because once AI
agents move beyond simple demos, they
need safe and structured places to
execute real work. According to the
GitHub repository, Open Sandbox is a
generalpurpose sandbox platform for AI
applications. It provides multi-
language SDKs, unified sandbox APIs, and
Docker or Kubernetes runtimes for
scenarios like coding agents, guey
agents, agent evaluation, AI code
execution, and RL training. Why does
that matter? Because a lot of serious
agent workflows eventually run into the
same problem. Execution environments. If
you want agents that can write code,
test workflows, run interfaces, or
handle real automation tasks, you need
controlled runtime infrastructure. And
that is exactly the kind of category
where companies often start paying for
hosted platforms and proprietary
tooling. Open Sandbox gives you an
open-source answer to that problem. So,
if you're building serious AI agents,
evaluation systems, coding workflows, or
executionheavy automation, this is one
of the most practical infrastructure
projects in the list. And that makes it
a perfect final example for this video
because it shows that open- source AI
agents are not just replacing
applications, they're also replacing the
infrastructure layers behind those
applications. And that's exactly why
open-source AI agents are becoming
impossible to ignore. They're no longer
just interesting experiments. They're
turning into real alternatives to paid
software and paid agent infrastructure.
And that's it for this list. These open-
source AI agents show just how fast this
space is moving and how quickly paid
software is starting to get challenged.
Let me know in the comments which AI
agent from this list would you try
first. And if you want more videos on
GitHub tools, open- source AI, and
developer workflows, make sure you
subscribe. Thanks for watching.